Okay now that we have Linux installed I want to give you a basic overview of this operating system and
the structure so that you're comfortable with it and we're going to be using it throughout the whole
course.
So everything is going to become easier for you as we go through the course.
Now the first thing that I want to talk about is the status bar in here.
So you can see we have an applications menu in here.
And inside it you can see all the applications are categorized.
So we have information gathering applications vulnerability analysis web application analysis reverse
engineering and so on.
So you can go on each one of these entries and just select any programs that you want to run.
And the next menus that we have is the places which shows you the most common places in the file system.
So we have home we have the desktop we have the documents downloads and so on.
So you can access the places from here and then you click on home or you can just click on the files
icon in here at the left and both of these will bring you to the home directory which is actually the
root directory.
So it says home in here.
But the actual location of this if I do control l you'll see it is forward slash route.
So inside this you can see we have our downloads music pictures similar to the way that you have it
in Windows and OSX.
We also have the time in here and in here on the right we have more controls.
So the first thing that we have in here is the workspaces.
So Linux comes with multiple workspaces by default.
Basically what this allows us to do is we can have this desktop in here for example we can open the
places and we can for example navigate to downloads and do some work in here.
But if we go here to work places and go to the second one you can see that I have an empty desktop that
I can do whatever I want and for example I can launch Firefox in here.
And then again if I want to go back to the first workspace all I have to do is click on here click on
number one and I'm back in here.
And because I've already used up two spaces the system is already creating a third empty space so I
can click on that.
And as you can see I'm in the third space where I can do more stuff.
Now you can also navigate between the spaces by pressing control alt up or down to go up and down in
the spaces the next part of the saddest part is this last part in here.
And if you click on it basically the first thing it'll allow you to do is control the sound.
Next you'll see your connections.
So as you can see right now and as I showed you before this is showing up as if we're connected to a
wired network because I configured this network to use that network if you have a wireless adapter connected
to this computer you should be able to see it here.
If you don't see it then follow the link in the resources of the sector to see how to properly connect
your wireless adapter or any device to a virtual machine.
Now I should note you can only use external us be adapters in order to access Wi-Fi networks from Kaleem.
You cannot use the built in Wi-Fi card but Kelly should have Internet connection anyway because it is
configured to use and not network.
And as you can see in here it's still me my wired is connected.
So if I actually go down to Firefox I'll close this and if I just go to Google that come you can see
it is connected to the Internet.
So let's go back to where we were.
If we click here we also have the battery settings the user settings.
You have this button to turn off the machine.
This is to lock the machine.
And this will show the preferences where you can modify the preferences of the machine so you have Bluetooth
Wi-Fi change the background change the languages and so on.
So you can spend some time getting familiar with this it's very easy and very intuitive.
Same goes to the file manager and we're very intuitive DoubleClick to go when you can right click and
archive and extract here to uncompress said you can navigate through all of these files by clicking
them and then you have the tri shear which contains the deleted files.
Now we also have the dock in here which contains the favorite applications and you can also access all
the other applications by clicking on this icon right here.
The show applications and this will show you a menu with the most frequent applications.
And then if you click on all it will show you all the available applications.